.TH "xrepo" "1"
.SH NAME
xrepo \- cross-platform build utility based on Lua


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrepo
.RI [ action "] [" options ]


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xrepo
is a lightweight cross-platform build utility based on Lua. It uses
.I xrepo.lua
to maintain project builds. Compared with
.IR makefile / CMakeLists.txt ,
the configuration syntax is more concise and intuitive. It is very friendly to
novices and can quickly get started in a short time. Let users focus more on
actual project development.


.SH ACTIONS

.TP
.B clean
Clear all package caches and remove all not\-referenced packages.

.TP
.B env
Set environment and execute command, or print environment.

.TP
.B export
Export the given packages.

.TP
.B fetch
Fetch library information of the given installed packages.

.TP
.B import
Import the given packages.

.TP
.B info
Show information of the given packages.

.TP
.B install
Install the given packages.

.TP
.B remove
Remove the given packages.

.TP
.B scan
Scan the given or all installed packages.

.TP
.B search
Search the given packages.

.TP
.B add\-repo
Add the given remote repository url.

.TP
.B list\-repo
List all remote repositories.

.TP
.B rm\-repo
Remove the given remote repository.

.TP
.B update\-repo
Update all local repositories from remote.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Quiet operation.

.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Input yes by default if need user confirm.

.TP
.B \-\-root
Allow one to run xrepo as root.

.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Print lots of verbose information for users.

.TP
.B \-D, \-\-diagnosis
Print lots of diagnosis information.

.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version number and exit.

.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print this help message and exit.


.SH AUTHOR
.B xrepo
is written by
.MT waruqi@\:gmail.com
ruki
.ME .

This manual page was written by
.MT mmyangfl@\:gmail.com
Yangfl
.ME
for the Debian Project (and may be used by others).
